[ Music ]
>> Hassan Samantar: The transition
into adulthood.
Many times when I sit an IEP with the
parents, my job as the advocate is to explain
to the parents how the transition programs,
transition plans might be, can help them,
their kids to be more successful in the future.
I try to phrase it in a different way because
a transition might not be something that many
of our families are accustomed
to or familiar with.
I try to put the focus with, you know,
the benefits of a transition program
that the young adults, when they
post-secondary, how they can benefit.
How they can be successful in life and
be effective member of the community.
It, how it can lead to job opportunities.
They can learn in job skills.
I try to phrase it in a way
that culturally acceptable
and the parents can really understand what is
transition, what is it supposed to be doing
or meant to be doing, and how their kids can
benefit being a part of a transition program.
I would give the advice of understand
there might be a cultural component,
a component that might be
playing a role for the parents
if the parents are not really
open-minded to transition programs.
Understand there might be a cultural
component that's playing the role there.
Secondly, I would say try
to explain in a way that is,
it's a basic, in a way that it's a basic.
What is the transition?
What is it supposed to do
before we jumped into it?
You know, more often as professionals,
we assume parents really understand
the services that we're providing.
So don't just assume.
If there is an interpreter, there's a
language barrier, utilize your interpreter.
Have the interpreter really explain what
the transition meant and how it, you know,
their kids can benefit in the future.
So more emphasis on that way than the
services themselves or the transition itself.
Once the parents are convinced and understand
that their children can benefit this program,
they're more likely to accept the
transition services and be a participant.
And that probably would be the best thing
that I can contribute to in advising
to the educators or professionals.
[ Music ]